# Project Proposal - Housing in Calgary

I was born and raised in Calgary Alberta, one of the [fastest growing urban areas](http://worldpopulationreview.com/countries/canada-population/) (population percentagewise) in Canada each year since 2011, matched only by its neighbor Edmonton. Calgary is not limited by natural land restrictions and is typically known for sprawling communities of single-family homes. However, there have been major efforts in recent years to densify the city with new rail lines and high-rise apartments. There have also been significant changes to demographics as new industries emerged and immigrant intake has ramped up. I have observed many of these changes in recent trips home and would like to explore them from a data perspective. I hope to learn about buildings in Calgary: where new constructions are happening, what types of buildings they are, and the demographics of the people occupying them. I would also like to explore how this has changed from years prior.

The Calgary Open Data portal released a [Census by Community 2019](https://data.calgary.ca/Demographics/Census-by-Community-2019/rkfr-buzb) dataset, last updated on September 20, 2019. This set is an “official count of dwelling units and population within those units”. The dataset is licensed under the [Open Government License – City of Calgary](https://data.calgary.ca/stories/s/u45n-7awa) which allows for freedom to “copy, modify, publish, translate, adapt, distribute, or otherwise use the Information in any medium , mode, or format for any lawful purpose” granted that acknowledgement of the source is made. It can be downloaded in csv format and has 306 rows, each representing a community district within the city. It has 142 columns including data on age, gender, pets, building types, buildings under construction, vacancies, and more. The many detailed columns on construction are of interest to me as they are indications of densifying neighborhoods. The demographic data will aid me in exploring who is moving into these new structures. Data is aggregated to larger zones so I do not believe there are significant ethical considerations, but I will stay aware of privacy concerns that may become apparent after analysis.

To compare to previous years, I plan to use the [Civic Census Results 1958-2019](https://data.calgary.ca/Demographics/Civic-Census-Results-1958-2019/rmai-qvzh) dataset. This set is under the same Open Government License as the previous one and is also made available by the Calgary Open Data portal. It has 8 columns and 701 rows with information on “citywide and ward-level counts of dwelling units and residents over the past 60 years”. This dataset will bring greater context to Calgary’s population change and constructions in each district for over half a century. The city’s growth is heavily tied to the energy and natural resources industry so it will be interesting to analyze how major boom and bust cycles affected development.   

The project does not depend on external parties so the only factors that may influence my ability to complete it are personal ones, barring unexpected events and technical issues. November is a busy month with homework and projects in other courses. I also have technical job interviews at the end of the month that require daily preparation. However, I believe that this project is entirely doable and my interest in its results will motivate its timely completion.
